---
layout: post
title: "iPhone impressions from a late convert"
categories: technology
excerpt: Why do people like iPhones so much more than Androids given their similarity?
image: iphone.jpg
thumb: iphone-thumb.jpg
---

I bought an iPhone 5 this past weekend. Previously I had owned only Android devices, and about a year ago I planned to eventually switch over for the sake of variety. I loved my Galaxy Nexus; it was and still is a relevant and competitive choice in the smartphone market. Tricked out with an optimized plain-vanilla Android 4.2 ROM and a custom kernel, this thing flew in comparison to any other Android phone. I developed apps for it, and I understood its OS software inside and out. It represented Android at its finest. Google’s apps that worked perfectly, the OS allowed crazy customization, and bleeding edge software releases were regular. But like all Android phones, it still had some problems. It would have a tough time with heavy multitasking. Like for instance when I’d be driving, I often have a few demands from my phone. I want to stream music from the cloud, I want to relay that stream over Bluetooth, and I want to run turn-by-turn navigation software, all at the same time. That’s actually a pretty tall order. And the Nexus would do it, but not happily. It would get hot and laggy, having trouble switching between apps. The other big thing I found annoying about android was that it didn’t ever seem to support those cool brand new apps that friends would be using. Snap chat? nope. Words with Friends? not at first. Photosynth? Too complex and 3D for Android. I couldn’t help but bite and see if the grass was greener on the dark side of the smartphone wars.

I’m not going to compare hardware; Apple’s is far and away superior. I’m not going to talk about design; the iOS and Android design philosophies are both pretty great, and come down to preference (skeuomorphic & detailed vs. abstract & crisp). I want to make the less obvious comparison between the emotional user experiences of Android and iOS. By emotion, I mean to refer to that feeling you’re left with when you put the phones down. I’m probably not the first person to come up with the idea of gauging a user’s experience based on emotion, but it seemed to me a really simple and failsafe way to figure out what’s working and what isn’t. I think three laws really sum up the emotional gauging I’m talking about:

Anytime something works as you expect, the user becomes a bit happier.
Anytime something doesn’t work, the user becomes a bit more frustrated.
And anytime something works, but not the way the user expected, the user becomes a bit more indifferent.
Summing up all the result of all the different interactions a user has with a device, you can arrive at the user’s end state: either happy, frustrated, or indifferent.

Android OS seems to frustrate a lot of people. A lot of things in it don’t work. Android’s getting better, but for a long time this was the case, and Android lost a lot of customers this way. Google has finally refined Android to the point where its phones have the opportunity of leaving a user happy. I was certainly happy with my Galaxy Nexus. But most Android owners aren’t rocking a tricked-out version of bleeding edge android, they’re running the stock Wireless Carrier ROM, laden with tons of bloatware and 2 or 3 Android releases behind. So I suspect that Androids still piss off many users.

This iPhone 5 though, it just doesn’t drop frames… that’s just not something it does. It’s blazingly fast at the same time. And I think I’m right in assuming that this is the kind of experience iOS users have had the whole time. On top of the speed, literally everything works as expected. Not a single issue. Not a single ehh-that-sucks-but-whatever.

I don’t think Apple has any secret sauce in the end. The key to creating a positive emotional experience with a device is to simply make that device work, and well. And assessing whether a device works doesn’t take the intellect of someone working at Apple, it only takes a human with an emotional gauge.