---
layout: post
title: Thinking about Identity
date: 2013-9-30 13:02
categories: philosophy
image:
thumb:
---

My entire life I've been surrounded by dudes. For some reason I never learned how to be close friends with a girl, and for the same reason, I've never held girlfriend. I'm only 20 years old, and I'm not in a terrible position.. I go to a liberal arts school with girls everywhere, and I have many guy friends have many girl friends. I can't seem to enjoy myself around them, and they don't seem to love me either. There are definitely a few that I love spending time with, but not many. Once in a while I find another person that I like being around, and I impose a mental games on myself. My subconsious put pressure on myself to try harder to be better than myself, which has gotten me in trouble in the past. And so I try and counteract it by limiting my spontaneous ambition with that person, I'll pull away when I should be taking the risk of pushing closer. 

Is this person dating anyone? Isn't she? If she is I become immediately and deeply sensitive to that gray area of friendship, and I'll pull away. Why risk ruining a mediocre friendship by pushing farther than I know is safe? Why hurt myself by getting any closer to someone I can't touch? If she isn't dating anyone I'm am secretly the happiest person alive. I will think about that person as I go to sleep.. earlier than I would think is normal in the relationship. I will talk to my friends about that person, and I will let myself fall in Gatsby love with that person without even really knowing her. I know this because it's happened a few times. I might even work up the courage (read: logic) to ask them on a date. But in my short career the process has invariably ended there. And I sulk.. and I've lost a friend. And I wonder if I should have ever have let myself get so excited about something I know so little about. If tomorrow I met somebody great.. somebody I would click with if I wasn't overthinking it, my approach to our early relationship would be strongly influenced by my confusingly unsuccessful history with other girls. 

I'm on a date with a beautiful girl, sitting at a table in one of the five restaurants in the town of my college. We're having conversation, and I'm nervous. I become a charicature of myself. If she says she likes to study all day, I explain that I don't like to study that much, even though I definitely do in some cases. It's like I've decided beforehand what kind of person I think is cool... and lie to become that. The problem isn't that I have no idea how to be cool, the problem is that I'm trying to be. And I walk out with her, and we had a pretty good time. We walk back towards campus, talking the whole way. I'm thinking that I had differentiated myself from other guys while also being charming and fun. I'm not enjoying the conversation.. I'm enjoying the company of a girl I like. And we get to the place you've been dreading, where you both have to go your separate ways. We hug, and say it was fun, and that we should do this again. But in hindsight I question the sincerity of any of those words. I figure that's how first dates go. Honestly, if she had been interested in seeing me again I wouldn't have ever known she didn't have a good time on the date. I figured that dates were supposed to feel kind of forced.

I've got to go to sleep, but as I do I won't be able to help thinking about what I have to change about myself to be good enough for a relationship. Abandoning that mentality is obviously the first step to approaching the opposite sex like I approach my own, but doing so won't rid me of semi-tramatic memories of previous mistakes.. the ones that determine my gut reactions and my impulsive decisions to pull away. The hard truth I've accepted is that a successful relationship is my only way out of this catch 22. 